In 1994 the Nobel Prize in Economics, worth nine hundred and thirty thousand dollars, distributed annually by the Swedish Academy of Sciences, was divided between a German and two Americans, for their contribution to establishing the foundations of game theory.

Game theory transformed the business world and replaced classical economics based on pure competition.

Created in the 1940s, much of its mathematical basis was developed by John F. Nash in his doctoral thesis at Princeton University.

Nash was one of the Nobel Prize winners. Born in 1928 in West Virginia, Nash studied mathematics at Carnegie Institute of Technology and Princeton. In 1951 he joined the staff of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

What stands out in his life, however, is not his genius, but the great martyrdom that was his life.

Diagnosed with schizophrenia, he was taken to a psychiatric hospital and even subjected to insulin shocks.

He had, according to the doctors, hallucinations, illusions, which led him to imagine international conspiracies and to believe himself capable of preventing a major world problem.

He also claimed to take orders from certain people, invisible to others.

Whether it was his imagination or the spirits that tormented him, within his framework of almost madness, what matters is that he overcame the difficulty.

At all times, including the biggest and worst crises of almost madness, his wife was with him.

Alicia was willing to keep him at home even when, on medical advice, who thought he was dangerous, he had to return for treatment at the hospital and undergo shocks and more powerful medication again, in order to prevent madness. total.

Want to know what's real? - She asks her husband.

And, touching his face with great affection, she tells him: This is real.

Then she takes his hand and places it on her own face, repeating: This is real. Then she takes her hand to her heart, making him feel the irregular pulse and affirms again: This is real.

Finally, she tells him, Maybe the part that knows you have to wake up from a dream isn't in your brain. Maybe it's in your heart.

She bet on his improvement. And he responded. With incredible effort, often being laughed at by students, he returned to Princeton University, allowed to attend some classes and frequent the library.

He fought bravely not to respond to the requests and orders of the invisible characters that tormented him and managed to regain his professor's chair.

On the night of December 1994, when he received his award in Stockholm, Nash's speech was moving:

I always believed in numbers. In equations and in the logic that leads to reason. And after a lifetime of searching, I ask: what really is logic?

Who decides the ratio?

My search has taken me through the physical, the metaphysical, the illusory and back again. And I made the most important discovery of my career.

The most important discovery of my life. It is only in the mysterious equations of love that any logic or reason can be found.

And, looking at his wife, moved, in the audience, he added: I'm only here tonight because of you. You are the reason I exist. You are all my reasons.

* * *

Those who love always become martyrs of love.

In the face of love, difficulty becomes a challenge, pain becomes a test, illness is rescue, struggle becomes experience, ingratitude teaches, renunciation frees, solitude prepares and sacrifice sanctifies.

Spiritist Moment Team based on the Book of the Year of Enciclopédia Mirador, v. 1995, item Nobel Prize in Economics, in the film A brilliant mind and in the entry Amor, from the book Repository of wisdom, v. 1, by the Spirit Joanna de Ângelis, psychography by Divaldo Pereira Franco, ed. Loyal.
